# Owner Social Determinants of Health as Predictors of Canine Exercise and Cancer Outcomes in the Golden Retriever Lifetime Study

## Abstract
The World Health Organization (WHO) recognizes the impact of social determinants of health (SDH) on human health and wellbeing factors. Limited research has explored how SDH, such as the social, economic, and environmental conditions in which individuals are born, live, work, and grow older have on human health and wellbeing, shape exercise behaviors and chronic health conditions such as cancer in dogs. This study links SDH identified through owner provided zip codes to levels of physical activity and we hy-pothesized that owners with higher incomes, education and access to healthcare services positively influence their dog's health outcomes. We utilized all owner provided data from the first seven years of owner surveys from the 3,044 Golden Retrievers enrolled in the Golden Retriever Lifetime Study. Sixteen GPBoost Poisson models were built to assess the impact of twenty-three social determinants in Golden Retrievers with and without cancer. SHAP values were calculated for each dependent variable. Consistently economic factors, education, ethnicity and health care access were identified as important variables. Furthermore, our results suggest there are complex interactions between ethnicities and the other SDH this should be explored in future studies.

## This repository contains code to create the GPBoost Poisson models described in the above manuscript.
